which office item is called on trombone
in French the answer at the end of the
show
hello and welcome to lateral this is a
quiz all about thinking outside the box
and coming up with answers that you may
not expect playing today first of all we
have well don't reduce yourselves I'm
Connie I'm a science writer and
broadcaster
I'm Helen Arnie I'm her sister and I
make songs and books and shows about
science and do you have a team it seems
like there's no obvious choice okay we
were gonna go team Arnie but thanks to
some unkind bullying at primary school
we're gonna be called team Terminator to
get our own back and we will be back I
was gonna go with the army sisters which
sounds like a really twee folk bomb so
your team Terminator is a good
alternative to that um anything you're
particularly strong on all week on here
physics biology please no sport question
no sport no I have no idea what's coming
up in this room I can't promise anything
can we have a question about the double
luge any particular reason if the only
sport I know about I'd say I'll see what
I can do but there's literally nothing I
can do playing against you today we have
we're team double luge
I'm Simon Park I'm a recovering PhD
student I am sorry Paige I am doing a
PhD in English and biology at the moment
are you actually team double loops are
we gonna go with that no we are gonna go
for a cosplay classic and go for vive la
vida and hope that Simon doesn't get
flashbacks to his LIBOR all right I mean
probably shorten that team Viper because
I'm not gonna be able to say all those
syllables every time anything you're
hoping comes up today I think between us
again we got a physicist and a biologist
that science will be good all right well
very best of luck as we start round one
round one is called deep thought there
are six lateral thinking questions in
this round you'll have 60 seconds to
answer a question the earlier you buzz
in the more points you get and if you
don't know it immediately I'm gonna give
you a clue after each of 15 seconds
starts out with four points after each
clue one of those points goes away if
you buzz in and get it right you get the
points if you buzz in it and get it
wrong hands of your opponents and the
clock starts again you already know team
Terminator you're getting the first
question this round buzzing when you
know the answer
look at this what do these two things
have in common okay
shotgun wedding wedding hurt she been in
any films that involve guns she's been
in the one with the wardrobe timbers
we've got Frankenstein woman is how on
the bottom Carter yeah that's the worst
clue ever okay and includes that is that
all the Rays that a gun are we sure
about that double barrels is exactly
right the three points Kalevala cart has
a double-barrelled name the shotgun is
double-barreled you left that by five
hanging a long time back you can wait
yeah it's like I'm still the favorite in
my whole life
you suddenly slammed that out of nowhere
it was bold it what what did we get did
we get we got three points
yeah guns teen driver what item of
clothing is known in Japanese as a semi
row I said okay um items of clothing
that it could be literally anything in
the human language isn't so it's not a
Japanese named item if I'm making kimono
type thing it's this the chair Japanese
name for another item a player yeah so
that that's pretty wide open at the
moment II know it has a London
connection as a London connection are
you from London Oh nylon is got a London
connection New York London do you want
to but I don't know it's something to do
with the sound of the word Saburo so
it's it's onomatopoeia it's something
it's an item of clothing that sounds
like several
I said I figured to say that over and
over again I'll just kill this it has a
connection to a specific it's strict who
is really helpful if I ever sleep in
like a suit jacket different for one
point a jacket specifically a suit
jacket or oh yes it's a Savile Row
business suit I heard a gasp over there
do something yes you're absolutely right
Savile Row gets translated into Japanese
as several team terminator this one's
for you
in 2012 the Australian Broadcasting
Company had to permanently remove one of
the episodes of Peppa Pig it from its
library because of one of the show's
characters however the episode continues
to run in the UK what was the problem I
know this oh because I was talking about
it with my husband last night exactly
this um it was about spiders and it was
saying don't worry everyone
spiders are fine spiders are our friends
love spiders don't kill them this is not
a good plan for your personal safety in
you're exactly right that is for point
straight off the bat congratulation
takers but I know about like a chariot
spiders team driver in some French
villages it is traditional to call upon
the services of a cat ozium at a dinner
party or restaurant meal though likely
unknown to the group it is thought to be
preferable to feed a stranger than to
leave it to luck why so cats Ozzy and
sounds like it's got full oh no ohh 14th
14th I did dinner oh yes yes right there
the 14th person at the table ah to avoid
having the number of 13 around the table
that's absolutely right for four points
okay this is a high scoring game this is
this is going well how many people do we
have to play to get 14 on our team i
mean i i'd say except tribes but I do
accept
absolutely true next two questions are
on the buzzer for both teams so both of
you fingers on buzzers in the 1910s
Brooklyn had streetcar trans on the
city's roads which proved to be an
occupational hazard for pedestrians of
the city it was such a feature of the
city that they named a sports team after
those pedestrians oh that was a buzz you
berieve got this right it is
astonishingly for four points the Los
Angeles Dodgers in Brooklyn it's not
team don't ask question goes on to say
it is reading it out they move to the
west coast you're absolutely right that
is four points for team Terminator
congratulations
Philadelphia cutters our last question
in this round is on the buzzer so are
you ready
London's Millennium concert and the
wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana
are just two of the major events that
have required the laying of cables over
long distances through tiny underground
tunnels the engineers didn't have poles
that could push the wires through those
long twisty tunnel so what did they do
instead used ferrets he's absolutely
right not only if you got the question
right for four points you've also given
the background information that I've got
on my car the extra point that's that's
not an extra point in what is frankly an
astonishingly high-scoring first round
team terminating you have 11 points team
driver you're on nine
the second round is called second
thoughts teams you can see 12 numbers on
the board each of you is going to take
in turns to pick a number and reveal the
clue that is behind it there is one
thing that all those clues point to I
need you to tell me what it is
and it's got to be exactly what's on
there there are plenty of things that
some of these clues could match with it
needs to be what's true for all of them
no penalty for guessing wrong so take a
guess even if you're not sure it might
just be right team terminator your
starting this round so pick a number off
the board eight number eight needs
cement a building dentist gonna take
your first answer there on building
we're gonna wait over like a number one
number one makes a picture or a pattern
masonry art is not what i have so we're
gonna pass that back over you pick a
number this time i didn't tell us number
six and you make a picture and you could
have known so mosaic is correct for four
points absolutely right you were very
nice to me art but if we have a look at
what else is on the board there is a
browser called masonry art you don't
generally find one in pompeii you team
driver you kick off the next one pick a
number off the board number ten number
ten sums fire engine red lots of fire
engines are but no not what I've got on
the card so team Terminator let's go
three number three Zeus is it lightning
it's not so I'm gonna pass it back over
for four points pick a number number
eight number eight Roman army symbol
lightning bolt no no I'm gonna pass that
back over so for four points like a
number five ninety five to me the
largest of eight octave no octave is not
what I've got so past three points
number two number two a famous anti
cyclist of famous
Eagle Eagle ah I can sort of see why you
going mad but it's not what I've got
passing it back over pick a number 11
number 11 one of the Giants
so like thunder tornado oh eight sticks
take your first answer as I have to it
is it is not eight sticks for two points
number four number four strong magnetic
field
Jupiter yes correct for two points is
the strong magnetic field you but it has
a really cool magnetic field because
it's it's metallic hydrogen in its core
and the famous anticyclone is the bright
red spot Jupiter in a different name yes
Simon salmon's fire engine is called
Jupiter team Terminator you've got the
first choice on the next board two
boards left in this round so pick a
number number four you're doing all the
bonuses take a shot my sister Kat it is
not it's lovely but not what I've got
the youngest dream driver pick a number
I'm gonna keep the cemetery at seven
nine number nine parts three and four
have similar endings Star Wars no not
what I've got so pick a number okay
number six unapi stick I'm serving on a
pee stick sounds like some of your dots
would say if you're pregnant
hey can I get a gas please back to the
future is not what I've got so keep the
symmetry number seven number seven says
13 feet in total very neutral football
team the imperial measurement rod is not
what I've got so team Terminator 1111
sometimes funny sometimes weird 13 for
it isn't it still isn't so is your
answer if you don't get anything else
pick a number
number one is number one right the
symmetry introduces a person and place
by line by line
not what I've got so for two points team
terminator let's go for eight number
eight
Irish count Oh God okay so you guys
remain Kalani Kalani
that's not instruction but now it's
handing it over picking up five number
five
spike milligan Oh Monty Python Monty
party is not what I've got so for one
point
pick a number three number three parts
one two and five have similar endings
Hitchhiker's Guide to the galaxy okay I
can see where you're going with that
it's not what I've got so number 12
number 12 book of nonsense Book of
Mormon Book of Mormon is not what I've
got well we're still in one point so I
know it is now in case I'm completely
wrong rhymes is Limerick it is Limerick
you are absolutely right so it is on a
pee stick mean and a PC is the digital
digital the Demeter the meter of it feet
are the there was I think we would have
yes so that is one point still its last
board in this round team driver you need
five points to tie it can be done we've
done it before so pick a number number
six number six University course physics
physics is not what I've got
so team Terminator pick a number three
number three it's like the mind I
created by an Sandwich is the right
answer
for five points like sports studies you
can now do like sandwich studies no no
there's a thing called a sandwich course
also all of those on the board but now
watch submarine a submarine sandwich is
what subway sells that's why it's called
subway which means that as we go into
the final round team Terminator have a
ten point lead
I feel like NASA you can leave me
hanging master round three is quick
thought each team has 90 seconds of
thinking time but because you're in the
lead you've got an extra five seconds
for each of those points you have in
hand so that's next for 50 seconds puts
you on to two minutes and 20 seconds and
your clock is going to start first over
there so as soon as you think you know
the answer buzzing if you're right
your opponent's clock is going to start
if you're wrong you'll lose ten seconds
and you're gonna get the next question
first team whose clock runs out is gonna
lose so very best of luck to you both
team driver mm-hmm things on the buzzers
your time starts now on which day of the
calendar year do the fewest people die
February 9th is correct
oh good one two minutes 20 on your clock
in 1939 who received an Oscar consisting
of a full-size award next to seven
miniature ones it won't be what it was
given for that yes Walt Disney's correct
one minute 26 on your clock an
organization took out adverts in
playbill saying you've seen the play now
at the church a woman no it's Book of
Mormon I was going to ask about the
playbill I were advertising in it is not
difficult and so that's ten seconds away
and the clock restarts for you which
building completed in 2013 was designed
to have an architectural height of 541
point three meters the Burj Khalifa is
not the right answer
that is 1776 feet it was one World Trade
Center in New York clock restarts
why does so many tourists take photos
outside the Philadelphia Museum of Art
but don't go in
I said to the road where rocky look runs
up the steps because I'm sitting on my
hands
do you actually think that that's my
rocky runs it's the entrance is up high
from the ground level
it's where rocky runs up the steps yes
you're absolutely right
they are the steps from Rocky you should
have been tough Sofia and trust myself
Thomas team Terminator 2 minutes 9
seconds who is the subject of Alberto
quarters photograph with the English
title heroic guerrilla fighter heroic
guerrilla fighter che guevara is correct
forty point seven seconds in which film
is the Sonny & Cher song I got you babe
heard 10 times spent a bit Groundhog Day
is correct yes 2 minutes and 2 seconds
what object has yellow opposite white
green opposite blue and orange opposite
red thick-skinned a Rubik's Cube is
correct 37 points of settings which
instrument measures altitudes in
astronomy and navigation through a
maximum arc of 60 degrees altitudes in
astronomy it's not a Fiat alight
[Music]
wasn't a date that's about 360 degrees
in a full circle I know that sextant is
correct yes you have 10 seconds left in
your clock but I stopped it team
Terminator 1 minute 57 which world
famous landmark is known as the Long
graveyard I mean I don't even want to
say anything because anything I say time
take your time gun many people die
during its construction oh oh oh no it's
canal or a railway Suez Canal Suez Canal
is wrong it's the Great Wall of China so
that's ten seconds away and your clock
restarts which chemical element is named
after the Greek word for foreign or
stranger it was discovered shortly after
Krypton and neon neptunium germanium and
iron americium ruthenium uranium
europium zirconium everything getting
anywhere no so what's strange it starts
with an uncommon letter of the alphabet
Oh Z naught xenon from Z no xenophobia
all words like that you're right
ten point seven seconds it can be done
which general wore his bicorn hat
sideways because it didn't restrict his
view of the battlefield Napoleon is
correct ah team Terminator one minute
and for which fictional land was
inspired by the bottom drawer of a
filing cabinet is the wrong answer
that's ten seconds away it was the land
of Oz the bottom drawer was ode to Zed
48.9 seconds your clock restarts which
two-digit number is considered unlucky
in Italy because vixy means I have lived
in Latin oh it must be five
so it's five weeks I have lived
employees you're dead five five one 10
one says now six eleven seventeen is
correct it's the sum of the letters we
have a nice question place 4.7 seconds
what is the main image on the obverse of
the new one pound coin the Queen is
correct the obverse is aside when the
Queen's head it's always the Queen's
head we can do this in Terminator 32.4
seconds which food items come in four
official shapes the bell ball boot and
bowtie oh I mean that's an ass no it's
Chicken McNuggets bowtie 17.1 seconds
which fashion house was named after the
type of tree that the founder used to
walk past on his way to school and like
an oak it's a heritage British Labor but
Burberry is not the right answer it's
memory
with 1.1 seconds on your claw
congratulations team Viper you are
straight through to the next round
team terminator you are not out yet we
will see you again but you have a
slightly longer
it was mulberry and you knew it but I
have to take the first answer so thank
you very much both of you for playing
congratulations we'll see you in time
we'll see you soon Christmas we'll see
you next time on lateral ABS late as a
mother of a toddler this is really
disappointing I did not get there my man
Sam normal price yeah
you